[Music]
Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of
gold whose height was 60 cubits and its
width 6 cubits.
He set it up in the plain of Cura in the
province of Babylon.
And King Nebuchadnezzar sent word to
gather together the satraps, the
administrators, the governors, the
counselors, the treasurers, the judges,
the magistrates, and all the officials
of the provinces to come to the
dedication of the image which King
Nebuchadnezzar had set up. So the
satraps, the administrators, the
governors, the counselors, the
treasurers, the judges, the magistrates,
and all the officials of the provinces
gathered together for the dedication of
the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had
set up. And they stood before the image
that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. Then a
herald cried aloud, "To you it is
commanded, oh peoples, nations, and
languages, that at the time you hear the
sound of the horn, flute, harp, liar,
and sulttery in symphony with all kinds
of music, you shall fall down and
worship the gold image that King Nephu
had
set up. and whoever does not fall down
and worship shall be cast immediately
into the midst of a burning fiery
furnace.
So at that time when all the people
heard the sound of the horn, flute,
harp, and liar in symphony with all
kinds of music, all the people, nations,
and languages fell down and worshiped
the gold image which King Nebuchadnezzar
had set up.
Therefore, at that time certain
calaldanss came forward and accused the
Jews.
They spoke and said to King
Nebuchadnezzar,
"Oh king, live forever.
You, O king, have made a decree that
everyone who hears the sound of the
horn, flute, harp, liar, and sultry in
symphony with all kinds of music shall
fall down and worship the gold image.
And whoever does not fall down and
worship shall be cast into the midst of
a burning fiery furnace.
There are certain Jews whom you have set
over the affairs of the province of
Babylon, Shadrach, Mach, and Abednego.
These men, O king, have not paid due
regard to you. They do not serve your
gods or worship the gold image which you
have set up."
Then Nebuchadnezzar in rage and fury
gave the command to bring Shadrach,
Mach, and Abednego.
So they brought these men before the
king.
Is it true, Shadrach, Mack, and
Abednego, that you do not serve my gods
or worship the gold image which I have
set up?
Now if you are ready at the time you
hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp,
liar and sulttery in symphony with all
kinds of music and you fall down and
worship the image which I have made.
Good.
But if you do not worship,
you shall be cast immediately
into the midst of a burning fiery
furnace.
And who is the God who will deliver you
from my hands?
Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to
answer you in this matter. If that is
the case, our God whom we serve is able
to deliver us from the burning fiery
furnace, and he will deliver us from
your hand, oh king. But if not, let it
be known to you, O king, that we do not
serve your gods, nor will we worship the
gold image which you have set up."
Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury,
and the expression on his face changed
toward Shadrach, Meach, and Abednego. He
spoke and commanded that they heat the
furnace seven times more than it was
usually heated. And he commanded certain
mighty men of valor who were in his army
to bind Shadrach, Mach, and Abednego,
and cast them into the burning fiery
furnace. Then these men were bound in
their coats, their trousers, their
turbons, and their other garments, and
were cast into the midst of the burning
fiery furnace.
Therefore, because the king's command
was urgent, and the furnace exceedingly
hot, the flame of the fire killed those
men who took up Shadrach, Meach, and
Abednego.
And these three men, Shadrach, Mach, and
Abednego, fell down bound into the midst
of the burning fiery furnace.
Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished.
And he rose in haste and spoke, saying
to his counselors, "Did we not cast
three men bound into the midst of the
fire?" True. O king. Look, I see four
men loose walking in the midst of the
fire,
and they are not hurt. And the form of
the fourth is like the son of God. Then
Nebuchadnezzar went near the mouth of
the burning fiery furnace and spoke.
Shadrach, Meek, and Abednego,
servants of the most high God,
come out
and come here."
Then Shadrach, Meach, and Abednego came
from the midst of the fire.
And the satraps, administrators,
governors, and the king's counselors
gathered together. And they saw these
men on whose bodies the fire had no
power. The hair of their head was not
singed, nor were their garments
affected, and the smell of fire was not
on them.
Nebuchadnezzar spoke, "Blessed be the
God of Shadrach,
Meek, and Abednego, who sent his angel
and delivered his servants who trusted
in him."
And they have frustrated the king's word
and yielded their bodies that they
should not serve nor worship any god
except their own god.
Therefore, I make a decree that any
people, nation, or language which speaks
anything a miss against the God of
Shadrach, Meek, and Abednego shall be
cut in pieces, and their houses shall be
made an ash heap, because there is no
other God who can deliver like this."
Then the king promoted Shadrach, Mach,
and Abednego in the province of Babylon.
[Music]